Title: Reasoning that Travels: Dissecting How Chain-of-Thought Transfers Across Models

URL Source: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2605.28913v1

Published Time: Fri, 29 May 2026 00:03:58 GMT

Number of Pages: 20

Markdown Content:
## Reasoning that Travels: Dissecting How Chain-of-Thought Transfers Across Models 

Xinyuan Cheng *U Beiduo Chen *U Æ Philipp Mondorf U Æ Barbara Plank U Æ UMaiNLP, Center for Information and Language Processing, LMU Munich, Germany 

> Æ

Munich Center for Machine Learning, Germany 

xinyuan.cheng@campus.lmu.de, {beiduo.chen, p.mondorf, b.plank}@lmu.de 

Abstract 

Large reasoning models (LRMs) often generate extensive chain-of-thought (CoT) traces before producing a final answer. As explicit textual artifacts, these traces can be passed to other models to solve the same task, enabling cross-model reasoning transfer . Yet successful trans-fer alone does not reveal how the provided CoT contributes to another model’s answer. We study this question with a controlled provider– receiver framework, where a provider generates a reasoning trace and a receiver solves the same problem from increasingly longer trace prefixes. We compare force-answer , where the receiver answers directly from the prefix, with free-generation , where it may continue reasoning before answering. Across models and bench-marks, full traces often transfer successfully, but prefix trajectories reveal distinct mecha-nisms. In force-answer mode, AIME transfer is largely driven by explicit answer availability. MMLU-Pro instead reflects a larger role for re-ceiver competence, while ZebraLogic depends on partial structured-answer information rather than complete-answer leakage alone. In free-generation mode, partial CoTs improve perfor-mance across benchmarks, indicating that pre-fixes can guide continued reasoning. Finally, answer agreement among receivers provides a gold-free signal for stopping provider reason-ing early. Overall, cross-model CoT transfer is not a single phenomenon: it can reflect answer extraction, reasoning scaffolding, or receiver-dependent competence. 

1 Introduction 

Large reasoning models (LRMs) achieve strong performance on complex multi-step tasks by gen-erating long chain-of-thought (CoT) traces before final answers (OpenAI, 2024; Guo et al., 2025; Et-tinger et al., 2025; Bakouch et al., 2025; Team, 2025). Although such traces need not faithfully  

> *Equal contribution.

reflect the generating model’s internal computa-tion (Paul et al., 2024; Lanham et al., 2023; Turpin et al., 2023; Mondorf and Plank, 2024b; Arcuschin et al., 2025; Chen et al., 2025c), they may still serve as useful textual artifacts that convey task-relevant information (Mondorf and Plank, 2024a). Recent work operationalizes this view in cross-model set-tings, where traces from one model are reused, ver-ified, continued, or passed to other models for an-swer generation, verification, and correction (Royt-burg et al., 2026; Zhao et al., 2026; Shi et al., 2025; Li and Goyal, 2026; Liu and He, 2026). Yet successful cross-model use alone does not reveal how the trace helps. Prior work mostly asks whether such reuse improves final performance or inference efficiency (Pal et al., 2026; Bi et al., 2025). This leaves open what information in the CoT is actually used and how transfer emerges as the trace unfolds. A trace may simply contain the answer, provide partial reasoning that helps an-other model continue, or interact with the receiving model’s own competence. We therefore conduct a controlled provider–receiver study across multi-ple models and benchmarks: a provider generates a reasoning trace for a problem, and a receiver solves the same problem using that trace. We make two design choices to expose the mech-anism of transfer. First, to locate when a provider trace becomes sufficient, we evaluate not only the completed trace but also cumulative prefixes of the same reasoning process. This shows how receiver performance changes as more provider reasoning becomes available. Second, because reasoning-tuned receivers may not naturally answer from an abruptly truncated CoT, we compare two trace-use modes. In force-answer mode, the receiver answers directly from the available prefix, isolating what can be extracted from the provided text. In free-generation mode, it may continue reasoning before answering, testing whether partial prefixes scaffold the receiver’s own reasoning. 1               

> arXiv:2605.28913v1 [cs.CL] 27 May 2026 Question 1
> Receiver
> < think > p k< /think >
> Force-answer mode
> answer directly from pre fi x
> Receiver
> < think > p k
> Free-generation mode
> continue reasoning and then answer
> Question :A stack of n tokens lies before them. The players take turns with Alice going fi rst. On each turn, the player removes 1 token or 4 tokens from the stack. The player who removes the last token wins. Find the number of positive integers n less than or equal to 2024 such that there is a strategy that guarantees that Bob wins, regardless of Alice’s moves.
> Pre fi x with correct answer: ... So total losing positions: 404+405= 809 .But wait ...
> 1234567810 9
> Free-generation fi rst time correct
> Force-answer
> fi rst time correct
> Competition-level math problem
> Single integer answer

AIME     

> answer fi rst appears: 809
> Question:
> Which of the following has the greatest potential for compromising a user's personal privacy?
> Options:
> A. A group of cookies stored by the user's Web browser
> B. The Wi-Fi network the user is connected to
> C. The user's search engine history
> ...
> J. The user's social media username
> Receivers can sometimes solve without CoT
> Knowledge-intensive
> Multiple-choice questions (A-J)

MMLU-Pro  ZebraLogic                                  

> House1 House2 House3
> Job ???
> Name ???
> Drink ???
> Phone ???
> Clues :
> 1. The person who uses a Samsung Galaxy S21 is directly left of Arnold.
> 2. The person who uses a Google Pixel 6 is the one who only drinks water.
> ....
> Puzzle:
> 1234567810 9
> House1: Phone = Samsung
> House2: Name = Arnold
> House1: Phone = Samsung Galaxy S21
> House2: Name = Arnold, Occupation = teacher
> House3: Drink = tea
> more components
> complete answer
> Constraint reasoning
> Structured multi-component answer
> Cumulative pre fi xes
> Full trace
> p1
> p10
> ...
> p2
> p3
> 12345678910 2Provider generates reasoning trace
> Provider Full trace
> 3

Figure 1: Overview of our provider–receiver reasoning-transfer framework. Receivers are conditioned on cumulative portions of a provider trace and solve the same problem either by force-answering or free-generation. The lower panels show how the framework is instantiated across benchmarks with different answer and reasoning structures. 

Figure 1 summarizes our provider–receiver reasoning-transfer framework and illustrates the benchmark-specific phenomena analyzed below: explicit answer availability on AIME (Balunovic et al., 2026), receiver-intrinsic competence on MMLU-Pro (Wang et al., 2024), and structured partial-answer accumulation on ZebraLogic (Lin et al., 2025). Across three benchmarks, we find that complete provider traces often transfer successfully across model boundaries, but prefix trajectories re-veal different mechanisms of support. On AIME, the two receiver modes diverge sharply: in force-answer mode, receivers usually become correct only after the prefix already contains the final an-swer, whereas in free-generation mode, they often succeed before answer leakage by continuing from the partial trace. On MMLU-Pro, transfer is more strongly shaped by receiver-intrinsic competence; on ZebraLogic, it depends on structured partial-answer information rather than complete-answer leakage alone. Finally, we study receiver agreement as a gold-free stopping signal. When multiple receivers give the same answer from a partial prefix, we stop and use that agreed answer. Agreement is more reliable when the same answer persists across consecutive prefix steps, especially on AIME in force-answer 

mode, where stable agreement often indicates that the prefix already contains the answer. Our contributions are: • We introduce a controlled provider–receiver study of cross-model CoT transfer across mul-tiple models and benchmarks, using cumulative trace exposure and two trace-use modes to probe how transfer emerges. • We show that transfer success does not imply a single function of the provider trace: trajectories separate answer extraction, reasoning scaffold-ing, receiver-intrinsic competence, and structured partial-answer information. • We propose receiver agreement as a gold-free stopping signal, showing that agreement-based stopping can retain much of the transfer benefit while consuming less provider reasoning. 

2 Related Work 

Cross-model use of reasoning traces. Recent work treats reasoning traces as reusable artifacts across model boundaries: CoTs can induce be-havior in other models, be summarized or trans-ferred across model scales, or be separated from answer execution in reuse and verification frame-works (Pal et al., 2026; Bi et al., 2025; Aggarwal et al., 2026). Related collaborative and speculative reasoning systems further use intermediate reason-ing steps for drafting, verification, selection, or cor-rection across models (Pan et al., 2026; Zhao et al., 2026; Shi et al., 2025; Liu and He, 2026), while other work studies model behavior conditioned on provided, partial, or step-wise traces (Roytburg et al., 2026; Chen et al., 2026; Li and Goyal, 2026). 2Role Abbr. Model AIME MMLU-Pro ZebraLogic Provider Qwen-4B-Thk Qwen3-4B-Thinking-2507 (Team, 2025) 84.44 81.22 96.04 Qwen-4B Qwen3-4B (Team, 2025) 70.00 75.61 90.21 GPT GPT-OSS-20B (OpenAI, 2025) 76.67 83.17 79.58 Receiver Qwen-1.7B Qwen3-1.7B (Team, 2025) 45.56 63.17 61.88 Qwen-0.6B Qwen3-0.6B (Team, 2025) 15.56 40.73 8.12 R1-Llama DeepSeek-R1-Distill-Llama-8B (Guo et al., 2025) 36.67 61.95 24.58 SmolLM SmolLM3-3B (Bakouch et al., 2025) 40.00 63.41 10.21 

Table 1: Models used in the provider–receiver experiments. Base accuracy is reported for each model solving the benchmark with its own full reasoning trace; values are percentages. We use subsets of those benchmarks for computational feasibility; subset selection details and statistics are described in Appendix A. 

These studies establish that reasoning traces can travel across model boundaries, but they mainly evaluate whether reuse succeeds or improves sys-tem utility. Our work asks a different question: why and when does cross-model transfer succeed? Us-ing cumulative prefixes and two trace-use modes, we analyze how transfer arises from answer ex-traction, reasoning scaffolding, receiver-intrinsic competence, structured partial-answer information, and receiver agreement. 

Reasoning traces as structured textual artifacts. 

Another line of work studies the internal structure of reasoning traces. Surveys organize CoT and long-CoT methods by reasoning paradigms, struc-tural variants, and prompting strategies (Chu et al., 2024; Chen et al., 2025b). Other work analyzes traces to support human interpretation or oversight, for example by segmenting CoTs into supporting and opposing statements, evaluating their monitora-bility, identifying influential reasoning sentences, or abstracting trajectories into structured reason-ing dynamics (Chen et al., 2025a; Korbak et al., 2025; Bogdan et al., 2025; Yu et al., 2025). These studies show that CoTs have meaningful internal organization, but they largely analyze this organi-zation from a human-facing perspective. Our work instead uses cross-model transfer as a functional probe of trace content. Rather than asking which parts of a CoT are interpretable to humans, we ask which partial trace information becomes useful to receiver models, and how that usefulness depends on the way receivers are allowed to use the trace. 

3 Cross-Model Reasoning Transfer 

3.1 Benchmarks 

We choose benchmarks to evaluate cross-model reasoning transfer. As illustrated in Figure 1, the three benchmarks cover complementary cases: AIME (Balunovic et al., 2026) involves derivation-heavy mathematical reasoning with single inte-ger answers, MMLU-Pro (Wang et al., 2024) in-volves knowledge-intensive multiple-choice rea-soning, and ZebraLogic (Lin et al., 2025) in-volves constraint reasoning with structured multi-component answers. These differences allow us to study whether the same provider trace can support receivers through different mechanisms, rather than treating reasoning transfer as a task-independent phenomenon. 

Observed CoT and answer structures. The gen-erated traces in Figure 1 reflect these benchmark-level differences. AIME traces usually build toward a compact numerical answer through symbolic or quantitative derivations, so transfer may depend on when the final integer first becomes explicit. MMLU-Pro traces often compare options using domain knowledge, so receivers may benefit from their own prior competence even when the provider prefix is short. ZebraLogic traces gradually fill a structured solution by tracking relations among entities and attributes, so partial answer compo-nents may become useful before the full solution is available. These differences motivate applying the provider–receiver protocol across distinct tasks. 

3.2 Models 

We evaluate seven open-source reasoning-tuned models and assign them fixed roles as providers or receivers. A provider generates the reasoning trace, while a receiver uses that trace to solve the same problem. Our main experiments focus on higher-to-lower transfer, where stronger models provide traces to weaker receivers. This setting is motivated by a scalable use case: if traces from stronger models can be reused by weaker models, reasoning transfer may reduce the need to run the strongest model for every answer. Because our model pool is constrained by avail-able compute and inference cost, our providers are 30 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 100                          

> Reasoning Prefix Coverage (%)
> 0.0
> 0.2
> 0.4
> 0.6
> 0.8
> 1.0
> Accuracy
> 010 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 100
> Reasoning Prefix Coverage (%)
> 010 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 100
> Reasoning Prefix Coverage (%)
> Force answer Free generation P base performance R base performance AIME-24-26 MMLU-Pro ZebraLogic

Figure 2: Prefix-transfer trajectories for Qwen-4B as the provider and SmolLM as the receiver across datasets. Curves show force-answer and free-generation transfer; horizontal lines mark provider and receiver base performance. 

not necessarily the largest available LRMs. Instead, we assign roles by empirical performance within this pool rather than parameter count alone. Table 1 reports the models, abbreviations, roles, and base accuracy with full reasoning traces. Provider mod-els outperform receiver models across the bench-marks, making them suitable sources for higher-to-lower transfer in our setting. This yields twelve cross-model transfer pairs per benchmark. 

3.3 Transfer Protocol 

Full-trace transfer can show whether a provider trace is reusable, but it cannot reveal when the trace becomes useful or what information supports the receiver. We therefore use prefix trajectories to measure how receiver behavior changes as more of a provider trace becomes available. For each problem, the provider first generates a full reason-ing trace. We extract the verbalized CoT, split it into ten ordered segments, and construct cumula-tive prefixes, where the k-th prefix contains the first 

k segments. For each prefix, the receiver solves the same problem under one of two trace-use modes. In force-answer mode , the prefix is closed as a completed reasoning segment, so the receiver must answer from the provided text. In free-generation mode , the prefix is left open, allowing the receiver to continue reasoning before answering. This con-trast separates what can be extracted from the avail-able prefix from what can be scaffolded by contin-uing the partial trace. This procedure is run for all provider–receiver pairs, datasets, and prefix steps. 

Evaluation. As answer formats differ across benchmarks, we use benchmark-specific answer cues and extraction rules. Predictions are evaluated by exact match for AIME, option-label match for MMLU-Pro, and full structured-solution match for ZebraLogic. For each prefix, we aggregate multiple sampled predictions by majority vote. Full imple-mentation details are provided in Appendix A. 

4 Does Reasoning Transfer Successfully? 

We ask whether provider traces can help receivers recover provider-level performance, and how this recovery changes as more of the trace is revealed. 

Complete traces transfer. When conditioned on complete provider traces, receivers approach the provider’s base performance in both force-answer and free-generation modes (Figure 2), consistent with prior evidence that CoT traces can be reused across model boundaries (Pal et al., 2026; Bi et al., 2025; Aggarwal et al., 2026; Roytburg et al., 2026; Pan et al., 2026). Averaged over all provider– receiver pairs and both modes, the remaining ab-solute accuracy gap to the provider is small: 0.17 on AIME-24–26, 0.46 on MMLU-Pro, and 3.63 on ZebraLogic 1. Since receivers perform substantially worse without provider traces (Table 1), these re-sults show that complete traces substantially reduce the provider–receiver performance gap. 

Transfer accumulates across prefixes. Full-trace transfer shows that provider traces are reusable, but not when useful information be-comes available. We therefore evaluate cumulative trace prefixes. As illustrated by one representative provider–receiver pair in Figure 2, accuracy gener-ally increases with prefix coverage in both modes, rather than remaining flat until the final segments. Thus, partial traces already contain task-useful in-formation, and later segments tend to further im-prove the receiver’s ability to recover the answer. 

> 1

A coarse LLM-assisted error check suggests that part of the larger ZebraLogic gap comes from answer-format errors, where the final output does not satisfy the required format. 

40 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 100                           

> Reasoning Prefix Coverage (%)
> 0.0
> 0.2
> 0.4
> 0.6
> 0.8
> 1.0
> Accuracy
> 010 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 100
> Reasoning Prefix Coverage (%)
> 010 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 100
> Reasoning Prefix Coverage (%)
> P base performance Qwen-0.6B Qwen-1.7B R1-Llama SmolLM AIME-24-26 MMLU-Pro ZebraLogic

Figure 3: Fixed-provider transfer in force-answer mode with Qwen-4B as the provider and multiple receivers across datasets. Horizontal lines mark provider base performance. 

Trajectory shapes depend on task and mode. 

The prefix trajectories are not uniform. Free-generation often performs better at partial prefixes, suggesting that receivers can use incomplete traces as scaffolds for continued reasoning. By contrast, force-answer transfer on AIME and ZebraLogic remains low until later prefixes, while MMLU-Pro shows strong free-generation performance even from the zero-prefix baseline. These differences indicate that prefix usefulness is not simply a func-tion of trace length: it also depends on the task’s answer structure, the receiver’s own competence, and whether the receiver must answer directly or may continue reasoning. Figure 2 shows one provider–receiver pair for readability; Appendix D reports all prefix-accuracy trajectories. Overall, full traces transfer and partial traces provide increasing benefit, but the result-ing trajectories suggest different underlying mech-anisms. We therefore analyze prefix content and re-ceiver behavior to explain what drives these gains. 

5 What Drives Force-Answer Transfer? 

We next ask what drives the prefix-level gains ob-served above, starting with force-answer mode. Be-cause receivers must answer from the available pre-fix without generating additional reasoning, this mode exposes what can be extracted from the provider trace itself. To separate shared provider-prefix effects from receiver-specific effects, we fix the provider and compare multiple receivers under the same prefix at each coverage step. 

5.1 Force-Answer Transfer Reveals Dataset-Dependent Receiver Effects 

Figure 3 shows force-answer transfer with Qwen-4B as the provider and multiple receivers across AIME, MMLU-Pro, and ZebraLogic. Since all re-ceivers observe the same provider prefix at each step, differences among receiver curves indicate how much transfer depends on receiver-side com-petence rather than only on the shared prefix. 

AIME is dominated by shared prefix informa-tion. On AIME, receiver curves almost overlap throughout the prefix trajectory. This suggests that force-answer success is mainly constrained by in-formation already present in the provider trace, rather than by receiver-specific differences. This pattern is consistent with AIME’s multi-step mathe-matical structure: when continuation is disallowed, receivers cannot easily reconstruct missing reason-ing and must rely on the available trace. 

MMLU-Pro shows stronger receiver-side effects. 

MMLU-Pro exhibits a different pattern. Receiver curves are already separated at 0% prefix coverage and preserve a relatively stable ordering through much of the trajectory before converging near the full trace. Thus, force-answer transfer on MMLU-Pro is not determined solely by the provider prefix; it also reflects receiver-intrinsic knowledge, option-selection behavior, and general task competence. This is consistent with the dataset’s knowledge-intensive nature, where receivers may solve or par-tially solve questions even with little provider rea-soning (Chen et al., 2026). 

ZebraLogic depends on both prefix information and receiver use. ZebraLogic lies between these two cases. Receivers start from similarly low accu-racy at 0% prefix coverage, suggesting limited task-specific ability without the provider trace. However, their curves separate once later prefixes become informative. Because all receivers see the same 50 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 100                         

> Reasoning Prefix Coverage (%)
> 0.0
> 0.2
> 0.4
> 0.6
> 0.8
> 1.0
> Acc / Answer leakage ratio
> AIME-24-26
> 010 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 100
> Reasoning Prefix Coverage (%)
> MMLU-Pro
> 010 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 100
> Reasoning Prefix Coverage (%)
> ZebraLogic
> Qwen-0.6B Qwen-1.7B R1-Llama SmolLM Answer leakage ratio

Figure 4: Answer leakage ratio and force-answer transfer accuracy with Qwen-4B as the provider. The leakage curve denotes the fraction of examples for which the correct final answer has appeared explicitly in the prefix. 

prefix, this separation suggests differences in how receivers use the available structured information, even though explicit continuation is disallowed. These dataset-level patterns suggest that force-answer transfer can reflect different mechanisms. AIME provides the cleanest case for isolating shared prefix information, because receiver curves closely track one another. Inspecting first-correct prefixes shows that, in many AIME cases, the provider trace has already completed the relevant reasoning and stated the final answer. We there-fore next test whether force-answer transfer follows explicit answer availability in the provider trace. 

5.2 Does Force-Answer Transfer Follow Answer Leakage? 

We define answer leakage as the earliest prefix step at which the provider trace explicitly reveals the correct final answer. For AIME, we detect leakage deterministically by checking whether the gold an-swer appears as a standalone numeric expression in the provider CoT. For MMLU-Pro and ZebraLogic, we use LLM-assisted leakage detection because their answers cannot be reliably identified by exact string matching. Details are in Appendix B. 

Leakage explains AIME force-answer transfer. 

Figure 4 compares answer leakage with force-answer accuracy for Qwen-4B as the provider. On AIME, the leakage curve closely tracks receiver accuracy. Among runs where the provider is cor-rect and the receiver becomes correct at least once, 

94.5% of force-answer first-correct steps occur at or after answer leakage. Thus, AIME force-answer transfer is largely explained by extracting explicit answer information from the shared provider trace. 

Other datasets are less leakage-driven. 

MMLU-Pro and ZebraLogic show weaker alignment with complete-answer leakage. On MMLU-Pro, 64.4% of force-answer first-correct steps occur before the answer is explicitly avail-able, consistent with a larger role for receiver-side knowledge and task priors. On ZebraLogic, 40.1% occur before the complete structured answer appears. However, complete-answer leakage is too coarse for ZebraLogic because answers consist of multiple fields: at the component level, receivers first become correct after 82.8% of gold answer components have appeared on average. Thus, ZebraLogic force-answer transfer relies on dense partial-answer information rather than complete-answer leakage alone. Overall, force-answer transfer supports aleakage-driven account for AIME, but not a single leakage-only explanation across tasks. This raises the corresponding question for free-generation : if receivers may continue reasoning from the same partial prefix, do they still become correct only after the answer appears? 

6 What Drives Free-Generation Transfer? 

6.1 Free-Generation Transfer Often Succeeds Before Answer Leakage 

Figure 5 shows a typical AIME example around the leakage point. The provider first states the correct answer at 70% prefix coverage. In force-answer mode, receivers become correct only at or after this point and often switch together. In free-generation mode, however, several receivers answer correctly before leakage and at different prefix positions. This mirrors that among runs where the provider is correct and the receiver becomes correct at least once, 88.11% of free-generation first-correct steps occur before answer leakage. Thus, most AIME free-generation successes cannot be explained by 6R1-Llama FA R1-Llama FG Qwen-0.6B FA Qwen-0.6B FG Qwen-1.7B FA Qwen-1.7B FG SmolLM FA SmolLM FG 10% 20% 30% 40% 50% 60% 70% 80% 90%100% Correct Incorrect Leakage step Figure 5: AIME example comparing force-answer (FA) and free-generation (FG) transfer across steps. Green cells indicate correct answers, gray cells indicate incor-rect answers, and the red line marks the leakage step. 

explicit answer availability alone. For MMLU-Pro, correctness is strongly entan-gled with receiver-side knowledge, task compe-tence, and option-selection behavior, making it difficult to attribute success to the prefix alone. For ZebraLogic, component-level leakage is more informative. Although 77.1% of free-generation first-correct steps occur before the complete an-swer appears, receivers have seen only 37.7% of gold answer components on average at those steps, compared with 82.8% in force-answer mode. This suggests that free-generation can use sparse struc-tured cues as scaffolds for continued constraint rea-soning, whereas force-answer transfer relies more heavily on dense partial-answer information. These results show that free-generation transfer can occur before the answer is revealed, especially on AIME. We therefore ask what kind of partial reasoning information helps receivers continue suc-cessfully before explicit answer leakage. 

6.2 What Information Helps Before the Answer Is Revealed? 

We focus the fine-grained prefix-content analysis on AIME, where answer leakage can be detected reliably and force-answer transfer is most closely tied to shared provider-prefix information. To iso-late useful pre-answer information, we consider cases where the receiver cannot solve the problem without a provider prefix and exclude cases where the correct answer has already appeared in the pre-fix. For each remaining case, we identify the first prefix step at which the receiver becomes correct in free-generation mode. We classify the available reasoning information into three coarse types. Approach-level informa-R1-Llama Qwen-0.6B Qwen-1.7B SmolLM 0% 10% 20% 30% 40% 50% 60% 70% 80% 90% 100% Correct Incorrect Answer leakage step Same Answer (251) Same Answer (0) Same Answer (39) 

Figure 6: AIME example of receiver agreement in the force-answer mode. Rows are receivers and columns are cumulative provider-prefix coverage. Filled boxes show correctness, the orange vertical line marks the an-swer leakage step, and colored borders indicate answers shared by multiple receivers at the same prefix step. 

tion includes prefixes that introduce a useful repre-sentation, decomposition, equation, case split, or general line of attack. Derivation-level informa-tion includes concrete intermediate progress, such as derived constraints, equations, numerical rela-tions, or partial computations. Mixed or unclear 

covers cases where both types are present or the distinction is ambiguous. 

Both approaches and derivations help. We use LLM-assisted annotation and manually inspect 50 random cases, of which 42 match our judgment; we therefore treat the labels as coarse descriptive signals. Across 494 prefixes, approach-level and derivation-level information are almost evenly split: 235 prefixes are approach-level (47.57%), 234 are derivation-level (47.37%), and 25 are mixed or un-clear (5.06%). Thus, early free-generation transfer is not driven by a single type of prefix help. Some prefixes set up a productive solution path, while others provide concrete intermediate progress. Ex-amples and details are provided in Appendix C. 

7 Receiver Agreement as Stopping Signal 

The preceding analyses show that cross-model transfer can succeed before the complete provider trace is available. In particular, free-generation receivers often answer correctly before explicit answer leakage, while force-answer transfer on AIME becomes reliable mainly after the answer ap-pears in the prefix. This raises a practical question: 

can we detect, without access to the gold answer, when a partial provider trace is already sufficient? 

Motivation. We consider receiver agreement as a gold-free stopping signal: if several receivers produce the same answer under the same partial provider prefix, the prefix may have constrained the answer space enough to support a reliable predic-tion. Unlike correctness, agreement is observable 7Dataset num R Rule ∆ Acc. Force/Free Token Force/Free AIME 2R 1-step −26 .95 / −9.69 51.24 / 41.25 2-step −5.67 / −3.02 74.01 / 64.79 3R 1-step −16 .45 / −4.72 63.06 / 54.04 2-step −0.75 / −1.48 79.18 / 70.89 4R 1-step −11 .93 / −3.33 67.83 / 59.53 2-step +1.51 / −0.74 81.56 / 73.67 MMLU-Pro 2R 1-step −23 .66 / −7.99 30.45 / 57.41 2-step −11 .37 / −2.97 54.40 / 40.84 3R 1-step −11 .95 / −3.84 45.53 / 52.95 2-step −4.96 / −1.10 63.13 / 50.32 4R 1-step −7.48 / −1.95 52.04 / 53.35 2-step −2.76 / −0.73 67.29 / 55.86 ZebraLogic 2R 1-step −21 .11 / −3.02 77.81 / 72.79 2-step −2.82 / −0.08 91.52 / 82.35 3R 1-step −7.31 / −0.28 83.66 / 78.90 2-step −0.97 / +0.28 93.10 / 86.96 4R 1-step −3.75 / −0.21 85.57 / 81.49 2-step −0.56 / +0.28 93.87 / 89.18 

Table 2: Accuracy–token trade-off of receiver-agreement stopping. Each Force/Free entry reports force-answer / free-generation results. 2R–4R denote the receiver group size used for agreement. ∆ Acc. is measured relative to the provider base performance, and Token denotes the fraction of provider reasoning used before stopping. All values are percentages. 

at inference time. We analyze it as a simulated stop-ping signal over fixed provider traces, rather than as a complete deployment strategy. Figure 6 shows why simple agreement is insufficient. In this AIME example, receivers sometimes agree before leak-age, but the agreed answer is unstable across prefix steps; stable four-receiver agreement appears only after the provider trace explicitly reveals the an-swer. This motivates requiring agreement to persist across consecutive prefixes. 

Stopping rules. At each prefix step, we collect the answers produced by a receiver group under the same provider prefix. The one-step rule stops at the first prefix where all receivers agree on the same answer, while the two-step rule stops only when the same agreed answer persists for two consecutive prefix steps. If no agreement is reached, we fall back to the complete-trace prediction. We evaluate both rules with receiver groups of size two to four. 

Accuracy–token trade-off. Table 2 shows that agreement yields a task- and mode-dependent trade-off between preserving accuracy and reduc-ing provider reasoning. One-step agreement uses shorter prefixes but is often unreliable, whereas two-step agreement is more conservative and pre-serves substantially more accuracy at the cost of later stopping. Larger receiver groups have a simi-lar effect: they make agreement stricter and usually more reliable, but consume more provider reason-ing. Free-generation agreement often stops earlier than force-answer agreement because receivers can continue reasoning from the partial trace, although this shifts computation to the receiver side. 

Task differences and leakage alignment. 

Agreement behavior also reflects task structure. On MMLU-Pro, receivers can agree from shorter prefixes, consistent with the larger role of receiver-side knowledge and answer priors. On ZebraLogic, agreement usually requires longer prefixes because receivers must align on a structured multi-component answer. AIME explains why two-step agreement is especially useful: because force-answer success is closely tied to explicit answer availability, reliable stopping should tend to occur after leakage. With four receivers, only 66.89% of one-step agreements occur after leakage, compared with 91.67% for two-step agreement; the same increase holds with three receivers (58.77% to 89.14%) and two receivers (42.27% to 82.08%). Thus, persistent agreement filters out many unstable early agreements and better aligns stopping with informative prefixes, matching the pattern in Figure 6. Receiver agreement turns prefix transfer analysis into a practical early-stopping heuristic. In cost-sensitive settings where a large provider supplies expensive CoT traces to smaller receivers, stable receiver agreement can indicate when the shared prefix is already sufficient, reducing provider reasoning while retaining much of the transfer benefit. 

8 Conclusion 

We studied cross-model reasoning transfer by treat-ing a provider trace as an unfolding sequence rather than a completed artifact. This prefix-based view shows that successful CoT transfer is not a sin-gle phenomenon: the same trace may serve as an explicit answer source, a scaffold for continued reasoning, or a signal whose usefulness depends on receiver competence and task structure. Across benchmarks, full traces often transfer well, but pre-fix trajectories reveal qualitatively different mech-anisms, from answer extraction in force-answer AIME to pre-answer reasoning support in free gen-eration and structured partial-answer use in Ze-braLogic. These findings suggest that evaluating only complete-trace reuse can overstate what has been transferred and obscure how reasoning traces actually help other models. Finally, receiver agree-ment offers a practical implication of this analysis: 8stable agreement among smaller receivers can pro-vide a gold-free signal for stopping provider rea-soning early, pointing toward more cost-sensitive cross-model reasoning pipelines. 

Limitations 

Prefix granularity. Our prefix construction uses ten cumulative segments of each provider trace. This design makes prefix trajectories comparable across examples and models, while providing one controlled way to expose partial reasoning. Dif-ferent segmentation granularities, sentence bound-aries, or semantic step boundaries could affect the exact prefix step at which transfer, leakage, or re-ceiver agreement appears. We therefore interpret prefix positions as coarse indicators of when in-formation becomes useful, rather than as precise boundaries of reasoning steps. 

Agreement-based stopping. Our receiver-agreement stopping analysis measures the fraction of provider reasoning consumed. This captures how early an observable agreement signal ap-pears along the provider trace, but end-to-end efficiency also depends on additional factors. In free-generation mode, receivers may generate further reasoning after the prefix, and practical cost depends on the relative costs of provider and receiver models, decoding length, batching, and system-level implementation details. Agreement should therefore be viewed as a useful observable signal for adaptive stopping, rather than as a complete deployment strategy. 

Ethical Considerations 

This work studies chain-of-thought traces as tex-tual artifacts that can be reused across models. We do not assume that such traces faithfully re-veal a model’s internal reasoning, and our find-ings should not be interpreted as evidence that transferred traces provide faithful explanations of model behavior. Instead, we analyze when these traces functionally help another model produce an answer. Cross-model reasoning transfer and agreement-based stopping could reduce inference cost, but they may also make it easier to propagate incorrect or misleading reasoning from a stronger model to weaker receivers. In particular, receiver agreement is not a guarantee of correctness; multi-ple receivers may agree on the same wrong answer. We therefore recommend using agreement-based stopping with validation, uncertainty checks, or task-specific safeguards in high-stakes settings. 

Reproducibility. Codes and outputs are pub-licly available at https://github.com/mainlp/CoT-Transfer for reproduction. 

Use of AI Assistants. The authors acknowledge the use of ChatGPT solely for correcting grammat-ical errors and enhancing the coherence of the final manuscript. 

Acknowledgments 

We thank the members of the MaiNLP lab for their insightful feedback on earlier drafts of this paper. Beiduo Chen acknowledges his membership in the European Laboratory for Learning and Intelligent Systems (ELLIS) PhD program. This research is supported by ERC Consolidator Grant DIALECT 101043235. 

References        

> Shashank Aggarwal, Ram Vikas Mishra, and Amit Awekar. 2026. Evaluating chain-of-thought reason-ing through reusability and verifiability. CoRR ,abs/2602.17544. Iván Arcuschin, Jett Janiak, Robert Krzyzanowski, Senthooran Rajamanoharan, Neel Nanda, and Arthur Conmy. 2025. Chain-of-thought reasoning in the wild is not always faithful. In Workshop on Reason-ing and Planning for Large Language Models .Elie Bakouch, Loubna Ben Allal, Anton Lozhkov, Noua-mane Tazi, Lewis Tunstall, Carlos Miguel Patiño, Edward Beeching, Aymeric Roucher, Aksel Joonas Reedi, Quentin Gallouédec, Kashif Rasul, Nathan Habib, Clémentine Fourrier, Hynek Kydlicek, Guil-herme Penedo, Hugo Larcher, Mathieu Morlon, Vaib-hav Srivastav, Joshua Lochner, and 4 others. 2025. SmolLM3: smol, multilingual, long-context reasoner.
> https://huggingface.co/blog/smollm3 .Mislav Balunovic, Jasper Dekoninck, Ivo Petrov, Nikola Jovanovi´ c, and Martin Vechev. 2026. Matharena: Evaluating LLMs on uncontaminated math compe-titions. In The Thirty-ninth Annual Conference on Neural Information Processing Systems Datasets and Benchmarks Track .Ziqian Bi, Kaijie Chen, Tianyang Wang, Junfeng Hao, and Xinyuan Song. 2025. Cot-x: An adaptive frame-work for cross-model chain-of-thought transfer and optimization. CoRR , abs/2511.05747. Paul C. Bogdan, Uzay Macar, Neel Nanda, and Arthur Conmy. 2025. Thought anchors: Which LLM rea-soning steps matter? CoRR , abs/2506.19143.

9Beiduo Chen, Tiancheng Hu, Caiqi Zhang, Robert Litschko, Anna Korhonen, and Barbara Plank. 2026. Decoupling the effect of chain-of-thought reason-ing: A human label variation perspective. CoRR ,abs/2601.03154. Beiduo Chen, Yang Janet Liu, Anna Korhonen, and Bar-bara Plank. 2025a. Threading the needle: Reweaving chain-of-thought reasoning to explain human label variation. In Proceedings of the 2025 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing ,pages 33111–33135, Suzhou, China. Association for Computational Linguistics. Qiguang Chen, Libo Qin, Jinhao Liu, Dengyun Peng, Jiannan Guan, Peng Wang, Mengkang Hu, Yuhang Zhou, Te Gao, and Wanxiang Che. 2025b. To-wards reasoning era: A survey of long chain-of-thought for reasoning large language models. CoRR ,abs/2503.09567. Yanda Chen, Joe Benton, Ansh Radhakrishnan, Jonathan Uesato, Carson Denison, John Schulman, Arushi Somani, Peter Hase, Misha Wagner, Fabien Roger, Vladimir Mikulik, Samuel R. Bowman, Jan Leike, Jared Kaplan, and Ethan Perez. 2025c. Rea-soning models don’t always say what they think. 

CoRR , abs/2505.05410. Zheng Chu, Jingchang Chen, Qianglong Chen, Weijiang Yu, Tao He, Haotian Wang, Weihua Peng, Ming Liu, Bing Qin, and Ting Liu. 2024. Navigate through enig-matic labyrinth a survey of chain of thought reason-ing: Advances, frontiers and future. In Proceedings of the 62nd Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers) ,pages 1173–1203, Bangkok, Thailand. Association for Computational Linguistics. DeepSeek-AI. 2026. Deepseek-v4: Towards highly efficient million-token context intelligence. Allyson Ettinger, Amanda Bertsch, Bailey Kuehl, David Graham, David Heineman, Dirk Groeneveld, Faeze Brahman, Finbarr Timbers, Hamish Ivison, Jacob Morrison, Jake Poznanski, Kyle Lo, Luca Soldaini, Matt Jordan, Mayee F. Chen, Michael Noukhovitch, Nathan Lambert, Pete Walsh, Pradeep Dasigi, and 48 others. 2025. Olmo 3. CoRR , abs/2512.13961. Daya Guo, Dejian Yang, Haowei Zhang, Junxiao Song, Peiyi Wang, Qihao Zhu, Runxin Xu, Ruoyu Zhang, Shirong Ma, Xiao Bi, Xiaokang Zhang, Xingkai Yu, Yu Wu, Z. F. Wu, Zhibin Gou, Zhihong Shao, Zhu-oshu Li, Ziyi Gao, Aixin Liu, and 175 others. 2025. Deepseek-r1 incentivizes reasoning in llms through reinforcement learning. Nat. , 645(8081):633–638. Tomek Korbak, Mikita Balesni, Elizabeth Barnes, Yoshua Bengio, Joe Benton, Joseph Bloom, Mark Chen, Alan Cooney, Allan Dafoe, Anca D. Dra-gan, Scott Emmons, Owain Evans, David Farhi, Ryan Greenblatt, Dan Hendrycks, Marius Hobbhahn, Evan Hubinger, Geoffrey Irving, Erik Jenner, and 22 others. 2025. Chain of thought monitorability: A new and fragile opportunity for AI safety. CoRR ,abs/2507.11473. Tamera Lanham, Anna Chen, Ansh Radhakrishnan, Benoit Steiner, Carson Denison, Danny Hernan-dez, Dustin Li, Esin Durmus, Evan Hubinger, Jack-son Kernion, Kamile Lukosiute, Karina Nguyen, Newton Cheng, Nicholas Joseph, Nicholas Schiefer, Oliver Rausch, Robin Larson, Sam McCandlish, Sandipan Kundu, and 11 others. 2023. Measuring faithfulness in chain-of-thought reasoning. CoRR ,abs/2307.13702. Aochong Oliver Li and Tanya Goyal. 2026. Off-trajectory reasoning: Can LLMs collaborate on rea-soning trajectories? In The Fourteenth International Conference on Learning Representations .Bill Yuchen Lin, Ronan Le Bras, Kyle Richardson, Ashish Sabharwal, Radha Poovendran, Peter Clark, and Yejin Choi. 2025. Zebralogic: On the scaling lim-its of llms for logical reasoning. In Forty-second In-ternational Conference on Machine Learning, ICML 2025, Vancouver, BC, Canada, July 13-19, 2025 , Pro-ceedings of Machine Learning Research. PMLR / OpenReview.net. Siran Liu and Cyril Y. He. 2026. Confspec: Efficient step-level speculative reasoning via confidence-gated verification. CoRR , abs/2602.18447. Philipp Mondorf and Barbara Plank. 2024a. Beyond accuracy: Evaluating the reasoning behavior of large language models - a survey. In First Conference on Language Modeling .Philipp Mondorf and Barbara Plank. 2024b. Compar-ing inferential strategies of humans and large lan-guage models in deductive reasoning. In Proceedings of the 62nd Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers) ,pages 9370–9402, Bangkok, Thailand. Association for Computational Linguistics. OpenAI. 2024. Openai o1 system card. CoRR ,abs/2412.16720. OpenAI. 2025. gpt-oss-120b & gpt-oss-20b model card. 

Preprint , arXiv:2508.10925. Koyena Pal, David Bau, and Chandan Singh. 2026. Do explanations generalize across large reasoning mod-els? CoRR , abs/2601.11517. Rui Pan, Yinwei Dai, Zhihao Zhang, Gabriele Oliaro, Zhihao Jia, and Ravi Netravali. 2026. Specreason: Fast and accurate inference-time compute via specu-lative reasoning. In The Thirty-ninth Annual Confer-ence on Neural Information Processing Systems .Debjit Paul, Robert West, Antoine Bosselut, and Boi Faltings. 2024. Making reasoning matter: Measur-ing and improving faithfulness of chain-of-thought reasoning. In Findings of the Association for Com-putational Linguistics: EMNLP 2024 , pages 15012– 15032, Miami, Florida, USA. Association for Com-putational Linguistics. 

10 Dani Roytburg, Shreya Sridhar, and Daphne Ip-polito. 2026. Measuring reasoning trace legibil-ity: Can those who understand teach? CoRR ,abs/2603.20508. Junhan Shi, Yijia Zhu, Zhenning Shi, Dan Zhao, Qing Li, and Yong Jiang. 2025. SpecCoT: Accelerating chain-of-thought reasoning through speculative ex-ploration. In Findings of the Association for Compu-tational Linguistics: EMNLP 2025 , pages 24405– 24415, Suzhou, China. Association for Computa-tional Linguistics. Qwen Team. 2025. Qwen3 technical report. CoRR ,abs/2505.09388. Miles Turpin, Julian Michael, Ethan Perez, and Samuel R. Bowman. 2023. Language models don’t always say what they think: Unfaithful explanations in chain-of-thought prompting. In Advances in Neu-ral Information Processing Systems 36: Annual Con-ference on Neural Information Processing Systems 2023, NeurIPS 2023, New Orleans, LA, USA, Decem-ber 10 - 16, 2023 .Yubo Wang, Xueguang Ma, Ge Zhang, Yuansheng Ni, Abhranil Chandra, Shiguang Guo, Weiming Ren, Aaran Arulraj, Xuan He, Ziyan Jiang, Tianle Li, Max Ku, Kai Wang, Alex Zhuang, Rongqi Fan, Xiang Yue, and Wenhu Chen. 2024. Mmlu-pro: A more robust and challenging multi-task language understanding benchmark. In Advances in Neural Information Pro-cessing Systems 38: Annual Conference on Neural Information Processing Systems 2024, NeurIPS 2024, Vancouver, BC, Canada, December 10 - 15, 2024 .Sheldon Yu, Yuxin Xiong, Junda Wu, Xintong Li, Tong Yu, Xiang Chen, Ritwik Sinha, Jingbo Shang, and Julian McAuley. 2025. Explainable chain-of-thought reasoning: An empirical analysis on state-aware rea-soning dynamics. In Findings of the Association for Computational Linguistics: EMNLP 2025 , pages 16660–16667, Suzhou, China. Association for Com-putational Linguistics. Yi Zhao, Yajuan Peng, Cam-Tu Nguyen, Zuchao Li, Xiaoliang Wang, Xiaoming Fu, and Hai Zhao. 2026. Trigreason: Trigger-based collaboration be-tween small and large reasoning models. CoRR ,abs/2604.14847. 

A Additional Implementation Details 

A.1 Prompts and Answer Elicitation Base prompts. We use dataset-specific base prompts before applying the model-specific chat template. These prompts are used to generate the provider reasoning traces. For AIME-24–26, the base prompt asks the model to reason step by step and put the final inte-ger answer in: 

AIME base prompt         

> Please reason step by step, and put your final answer within \boxed{}. The answer is an integer between 0and 999 inclusive. {problem}

For MMLU-Pro, the base prompt presents a multiple-choice question with answer options A–J and asks the model to finish with the answer is (X) :

MMLU-Pro base prompt            

> The following are multiple choice questions (with answers) about {subject}. Think step by step and then finish your answer with “the answer is (X)” where X is the correct letter choice. Question: {question} Options: A. {option_1} B. {option_2} ... J. {option_10} Answer:

For ZebraLogic, the base prompt follows the original format: one solved example puzzle and its JSON solution are followed by the target puzzle and the required JSON schema: 

ZebraLogic base prompt             

> # Example Puzzle [fixed solved example] ## Answer to the Example Puzzle [fixed JSON solution] # Puzzle to Solve {PUZZLE} # Instruction Now please solve the above puzzle. Present only the solution in the following json format: {SCHEMA}

Here, {problem} , {question} , and {PUZZLE} 

are replaced by the corresponding benchmark in-stance. For ZebraLogic, {SCHEMA} specifies the re-quired JSON structure for the current puzzle, with placeholder values to be filled by the model. Although the Figure 1 uses <think> and 

</think> as notation for reasoning boundaries, these markers are not intended to impose a single literal format across models. In implementation, each model is prompted using its native chat tem-plate and reasoning format. 

Dataset language. All benchmarks are English-language or English-formatted: AIME-24–26 uses English mathematical word problems, MMLU-Pro uses English multiple-choice questions, and Ze-braLogic uses English constraint clues with JSON-11 Benchmark Answer cue Expected format AIME Based on the reasoning so far, the final answer is: \boxed{ \boxed{integer}    

> MMLU-Pro Based on the reasoning so far, the final answer is ( (X) label ZebraLogic Based on the reasoning so far, the final solution JSON format is
> JSON object

Table 3: Benchmark-specific answer cues used after the provided or generated reasoning context. 

formatted answers. 

Answer elicitation cues. After the reasoning con-text is closed, we elicit the final answer using benchmark-specific cues. The same cues are used in the force-answer mode and after the generated continuation in the free-generation mode. Table 3 summarizes the cues and expected answer formats. 

A.2 Prefix Construction and Decoding Prefix segmentation. We extract only the ver-balized reasoning content between each model’s reasoning markers and segment this extracted trace into ten ordered segments. Sentence boundaries are obtained using NLTK sentence tokenization. Token lengths are computed with the provider model’s to-kenizer. We then use dynamic programming to partition the sentence sequence into ten consecu-tive segments by minimizing the sum of squared deviations between each segment’s token length and the target segment length, where the target is the total number of provider-tokenized reasoning tokens divided by ten. This procedure encourages balanced token coverage while preserving sentence boundaries. If sentence-level segmentation cannot produce ten valid segments, for example because the extracted reasoning trace contains fewer than ten sentence units, we fall back to token-level par-titioning and split the provider-tokenized reason-ing trace into ten approximately equal consecutive spans. The ten segments are then concatenated cumulatively to form the prefix sequence used in receiver evaluation. 

Two-stage evaluation. All experiments follow a two-stage procedure. First, each provider model is run once on the original dataset prompt to gener-ate a complete reasoning trace for each problem. Second, the extracted trace is segmented into cu-mulative prefixes and used for prefix-conditioned receiver evaluation. This ensures that receiver be-havior is evaluated against fixed provider traces rather than traces regenerated separately for each prefix condition. 

Decoding and aggregation. In the force-answer mode, each prefix condition is decoded five times for final-answer elicitation. In the free-generation mode, each prefix condition is decoded five times to generate five reasoning continuations, and the final answer is elicited once from each continuation using the benchmark-specific answer cue. We use a single answer-elicitation pass in free-generation mode because a pilot check on AIME showed that repeated answer elicitation from the same gener-ated continuation was highly stable, with 96.44% of conditions yielding unanimous answers across five repeated elicitation runs. In both modes, extracted answers are aggregated by majority vote. Ties are resolved by fixed-seed random tie-breaking. 

A.3 Answer Extraction, Generation Parameters, and Compute Answer extraction. We use benchmark-specific answer extraction rules that match the expected an-swer format induced by the corresponding answer cue. For AIME-24–26, we extract the integer inside the final \boxed{} expression. For MMLU-Pro, we extract the option label following the opening parenthesis introduced by the answer cue. For Ze-braLogic, we complete the JSON prefix introduced by the cue, parse the resulting JSON object, and compare the structured assignment against the gold solution. A ZebraLogic prediction is counted as correct only if all required fields are parsed and match the gold assignment. 

Generation parameters. Table 4 summarizes the default generation parameters used in the main experiments. We use the default sampling configu-ration specified for each model family, following the developers’ recommended settings where avail-able. This is intended to preserve each model’s native reasoning behavior and Chain-of-Thought (CoT) generation style. Unless otherwise stated, all experiments use a maximum generation length of 32,768 tokens. 

Compute resources. All experiments were con-ducted on four NVIDIA A100-SXM4-80GB GPUs. The complete set of main experiments took approx-imately 120 hours of wall-clock time on this setup. 

B Answer Leakage Detection 

We define answer leakage as the earliest prefix seg-ment at which the provider trace explicitly reveals 12 Model Temp. Top-p Top-k Min-p Max tokens Qwen-4B-Thk 0.6 0.95 20 0 32768 Qwen-4B 0.6 0.95 20 0 32768 GPT 0.6 0.95 – – 32768 Qwen-1.7B 0.6 0.95 20 0 32768 Qwen-0.6B 0.6 0.95 20 0 32768 R1-Llama 0.6 0.95 – – 32768 SmolLM 0.6 0.95 – – 32768 

Table 4: Default generation parameters used in the main experiments. Model abbreviations follow Table 1. 

Benchmark #Items Evaluation format AIME-24–26 90 Integer exact match ZebraLogic 480 Full structured JSON match MMLU-Pro CS 410 10-option multiple choice 

Table 5: Benchmark subsets used in the experiments. All datasets are in English. 

the correct final answer. For AIME, leakage is de-tected deterministically by checking whether the gold integer answer appears as a standalone nu-meric expression in the provider reasoning text. For MMLU-Pro and ZebraLogic, we use LLM-assisted leakage detection because the correct answer may be expressed as an option, a paraphrased statement, or a structured solution rather than a single exact string. We probe prefix leakage by ask-ing a separate DeepSeek judge model (deepseek-v4-flash ) (DeepSeek-AI, 2026) to identify the earliest segment in which the complete gold answer is explicitly stated. The judge is run with temperature 0, JSON-only output, and thinking disabled. For MMLU-Pro and ZebraLogic, the judge is instructed to mark leakage only when the complete correct final answer is explicitly stated in one continuous answer statement. It must not solve the task, infer unstated answers, or combine partial information across separated reasoning steps. If an answer statement is split across adjacent segments because the segmentation boundary cuts through an uninterrupted answer span, the leakage point is assigned to the later segment where the full answer becomes available. For ZebraLogic, we additionally run a partial-leakage judge that identifies which gold answer cells become explicitly correct for the first time in each segment. A cell is counted only when the full house–attribute–value assignment is explicitly stated. The judge returns newly explicit cells per segment rather than cumulative cells, and the same cell is not counted more than once. 

Dataset #Checked Agreement MMLU-Pro 50 100% ZebraLogic 50 100% 

Table 6: Manual validation of LLM-assisted answer-leakage detection. 

To assess reliability, we manually inspected 50 examples from each dataset using LLM-assisted leakage detection. As shown in Table 6, the LLM-assisted labels agreed with the manual inspection in all checked cases. We use this validation as a reliability check rather than as a source of final labels. 

Full-answer leakage judge prompt. The follow-ing prompt is used for MMLU-Pro and ZebraLogic full-answer leakage detection. 

System prompt. System prompt 

You are a strict annotation judge. Your job is only to judge whether the reasoning explicitly states the complete correct answer in one continuous answer statement. You may treat adjacent segments as one continuous statement only when the segmentation cut through an uninterrupted answer span. When a continuous answer statement crosses from one segment into the next, assign the hit to the later segment where the full answer becomes complete. Do not mark the earlier segment positive if it contains only an incomplete prefix. Do not combine partial information across separated reasoning steps. Do not solve the task yourself. Do not infer the answer from the problem if the text itself has not already made it explicit. Return JSON only. 

User prompt template. User prompt template 

Below is one model’s reasoning for asingle problem, split into 10 segments in chronological order. Your task is to identify the earliest segment from which the reasoning already explicitly states the complete correct final answer. Rules: 1. Judge only what is explicitly stated in the reasoning text. 2. Do not solve the problem yourself. 3. Do not give credit for hints, partial narrowing, or suggestive evidence. 4. Count it as positive if the complete 

13 correct answer is explicitly stated in one continuous answer statement. 5. A continuous answer statement may cross an adjacent segment boundary if the segmentation merely cut one uninterrupted sentence or answer span into pieces. 6. If a continuous answer statement crosses from segment N into segment N+1, count the leakage at segment N+1, because that is the segment where the full answer first becomes available. 7. Do not mark segment N positive if it only contains an incomplete prefix of the answer and the full answer is completed only in segment N+1. 8. Do not combine information across separated reasoning steps. If one segment mentions part of the answer, then there is other reasoning, and only later another segment adds the rest, that does not count. 9. If the answer is never made explicit in one continuous answer statement, return null. Correct final answer: {GOLD_ANSWER} Reasoning segments: [Segment 1] {SEGMENT_1} [Segment 2] {SEGMENT_2} ... [Segment 10] {SEGMENT_10} Return JSON only with this schema: {"earliest_explicit_segment": 1-10 or null, "segment_assessments": [ {"segment_idx": 1, "explicit_correct_answer": true/false, "reason": "short explanation" }]}

ZebraLogic partial-leakage judge prompt. For ZebraLogic, we additionally identify partial leak-age at the level of gold answer cells. The judge receives the gold cell IDs and the ten reasoning segments, and returns the newly explicit correct cell IDs for each segment. 

System prompt. System prompt 

You are a strict annotation judge. Your job is only to judge which gold answer cells become explicitly correct for the first time in each segment. Do not solve the puzzle yourself. Do not infer unstated cells. 

Only count cells whose full house-attribute-value assignment is explicitly stated. Output incremental per-segment newly explicit cells, not cumulative cells. Do not count the same cell again after it first appears. If an uninterrupted answer statement is cut across adjacent segments, assign the completed cell(s) to the later segment where the full statement becomes available. Use only the provided gold cell_ids. Return JSON only. 

User prompt template. User prompt template 

Below is one model’s reasoning for asingle ZebraLogic problem, split into 10 chronological segments. Your task is to judge incremental partial answer leakage for a ZebraLogic solution. A gold answer cell is one exact house-attribute-value assignment. For each segment, identify which gold answer cells become explicitly correct for the first time in that segment. Rules: 1. Judge only what is explicitly stated in the reasoning text. 2. Do not solve the puzzle yourself. 3. Count a cell only if the full house-attribute-value assignment is explicitly stated. 4. Do not infer cells from hints, eliminations, or other stated cells. 5. If one cell’s full statement is split across two adjacent segments, count it in the later segment where it becomes complete. 6. Return exactly 10 items: one for each segment 1 through 10. 7. If a segment has no newly explicit correct cells, return an empty list for that segment. 8. Do not count the same cell more than once. Gold answer cells: - "{CELL_ID_1}": {HOUSE_1} | {ATTRIBUTE_1} = {VALUE_1} - "{CELL_ID_2}": {HOUSE_2} | {ATTRIBUTE_2} = {VALUE_2} ... Reasoning segments: [Segment 1] {SEGMENT_1} [Segment 2] {SEGMENT_2} ... [Segment 10] {SEGMENT_10} Return JSON only with this schema: 

14 {"segment_assessments": [ {"segment_idx": 1, "explicitly_correct_cell_ids": ["House 1.Name", "House 2.PhoneModel"], "reason": "short explanation" }]}The array must contain exactly 10 items, with segment_idx = 1, 2, 3, ..., 10. 

C Prefix Help Annotation 

To better understand what type of information en-ables early free-generation transfer, we conduct an LLM-assisted annotation on AIME prefixes where the receiver is incorrect without any provider prefix but first becomes correct after receiving a partial provider prefix. For each such case, we classify the first helpful prefix according to its main role for the original question. We use a separate DeepSeek judge model ( deepseek-v4-flash ) (DeepSeek-AI, 2026). The judge is run with temperature 0, JSON-only output, and thinking disabled. We use three labels. Approach-level information 

indicates that the prefix mainly provides a useful setup, representation, transformation, decomposi-tion, case distinction, equation setup, or general line of attack. Derivation-level information indi-cates that the prefix already contains concrete in-termediate progress, such as a derived equation, numerical relation, constraint, intermediate result, partial computation, or substantial partial deriva-tion. Mixed or unclear is used when both types are strongly present or when the prefix is insufficient to decide. We use LLM-assisted annotation and manually inspect 50 random cases, of which 42 match our judgment. We therefore treat the labels as coarse descriptive signals rather than definitive annota-tions. 

Annotation prompt. The annotation model receives the original AIME ques-tion and the provider prefix snippet. The variables {candidate.question} and 

{candidate.provider_prefix} are replaced by the AIME problem and the prefix being classified, respectively. 

System prompt. System prompt 

You classify short text snippets relative to a question. Judge the snippet’s main role for the given question. Use the question and the snippet. Do not restate the problem. Do not solve the problem. Return JSON only. 

User prompt template. User prompt template 

Judge the role of the text snippet for the question below. Classify the snippet using the A/B/C labels below, and give a short reason. Rules: 1. Use the question and the [Text snippet]. 2. Judge the snippet’s role for the question, not in isolation. 3. Do not use any material other than the question and the text snippet. 4. Do not restate the problem. 5. Do not solve the problem. 6. Explain the judgment clearly. 7. Return JSON only. [Question] {candidate.question} [Text snippet] {candidate.provider_prefix} Return JSON with this schema: {"snippet_role_type": "A|B|C", "snippet_role_reason": "explanation" }Label definitions: A. approach-level information The snippet mainly establishes how to approach the problem. It may introduce a useful representation, variable setup, transformation, decomposition, case distinction, equation setup, or general line of attack. The snippet does not yet contain a developed intermediate derivation or a substantial partial solution. The key information is about setting up the solution path. B. derivation-level information The snippet has already entered the intermediate derivation stage. It contains concrete progress within asolution path, such as a derived equation, constraint, numerical relation, intermediate result, partial computation, or substantial partial derivation. The key information is not only how to start, but an actual derived step toward the answer. 

15 C. mixed or unclear Use this label if both types are strongly present and neither is clearly dominant, or if the snippet does not contain enough information to decide. 

Qualitative examples. Table 7 shows represen-tative examples of the annotated prefix-help types. For readability, we show shortened problem state-ments and prefix snippets. 

D Complete Prefix-Accuracy Trajectories 

This appendix reports the full set of prefix-accuracy trajectories for all provider–receiver pairs across datasets and transfer modes. 16 Type Case Prefix snippet excerpt Why this label Approach-level R1-Llama ← GPT, Problem 3 “We have a game of removing 1 or 4 tokens. It’s a normal play impartial combinatorial game. Determine for which n

Bob ... has a forced win ... We need to compute P-positions ... For subtraction game with moves {1, 4}. Standard Nim-like ... Position n is losing if n − 1 and n − 4 are both winning ...” The prefix mainly sets up the solution path: it defines losing posi-tions, gives the recur-rence, and indicates that the model should com-pute the resulting pattern from small cases. Derivation-level R1-Llama ← GPT, Problem 26 “We need count of nonnegative integer solutions to a + b +

c = 300 ... We can factor expression: P 

> sym

a2b = ( a +

b + c)( ab + bc + ca ) − 3abc ... Given a + b + c = 300 .So expression = 300( ab + bc + ca ) − 3abc = 6 ,000 ,000 .Divide by 3: 100( ab + bc + ca ) − abc = 2 ,000 ,000 .” The prefix has already entered a concrete derivation: it rewrites the expression using a symmetric-polynomial identity and derives an intermediate equation. Mixed or un-clear R1-Llama ← GPT, Problem 31 “We need to interpret numbers in base b. For base b > 9,digits allowed 0–9, and also maybe letters for > 9 but digits are 1 and 7 for 17 b, 9 and 7 for 97 b.” The prefix is too short to classify cleanly. It suggests a possible ap-proach, but does not con-tain enough substance to clearly count as either a developed setup or a derivation. 

Table 7: Representative examples for the prefix-help annotation on AIME. 0 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 100                          

> Reasoning Prefix Coverage (%)
> 0.0
> 0.2
> 0.4
> 0.6
> 0.8
> 1.0
> Accuracy
> 010 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 100
> Reasoning Prefix Coverage (%)
> 010 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 100
> Reasoning Prefix Coverage (%)
> Force answer Free generation P base performance R base performance AIME-24-26 MMLU-Pro ZebraLogic

Figure 7: Prefix-transfer trajectories for Qwen3-4B-Thinking-2507 as the provider and Qwen3-1.7B as the receiver across three datasets. Curves show force-answer and free-generation transfer; horizontal lines mark provider and receiver base performance. 0 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 100                          

> Reasoning Prefix Coverage (%)
> 0.0
> 0.2
> 0.4
> 0.6
> 0.8
> 1.0
> Accuracy
> 010 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 100
> Reasoning Prefix Coverage (%)
> 010 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 100
> Reasoning Prefix Coverage (%)
> Force answer Free generation P base performance R base performance AIME-24-26 MMLU-Pro ZebraLogic

Figure 8: Prefix-transfer trajectories for Qwen3-4B-Thinking-2507 as the provider and Qwen3-0.6B as the receiver across three datasets. Curves show force-answer and free-generation transfer; horizontal lines mark provider and receiver base performance. 

17 0 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 100 

Reasoning Prefix Coverage (%)           

> 0.0
> 0.2
> 0.4
> 0.6
> 0.8
> 1.0
> Accuracy
> 010 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 100

Reasoning Prefix Coverage (%)           

> 010 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 100

Reasoning Prefix Coverage (%) 

Force answer Free generation P base performance R base performance AIME-24-26 MMLU-Pro ZebraLogic Figure 9: Prefix-transfer trajectories for Qwen3-4B-Thinking-2507 as the provider and DeepSeek-R1-Distill-Llama-8B as the receiver across three datasets. Curves show force-answer and free-generation transfer; horizontal lines mark provider and receiver base performance. 0 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 100 

Reasoning Prefix Coverage (%)           

> 0.0
> 0.2
> 0.4
> 0.6
> 0.8
> 1.0
> Accuracy
> 010 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 100

Reasoning Prefix Coverage (%)           

> 010 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 100

Reasoning Prefix Coverage (%) 

Force answer Free generation P base performance R base performance AIME-24-26 MMLU-Pro ZebraLogic 

Figure 10: Prefix-transfer trajectories for Qwen3-4B-Thinking-2507 as the provider and SmolLM3-3B as the receiver across three datasets. Curves show force-answer and free-generation transfer; horizontal lines mark provider and receiver base performance. 0 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 100 

Reasoning Prefix Coverage (%)           

> 0.0
> 0.2
> 0.4
> 0.6
> 0.8
> 1.0
> Accuracy
> 010 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 100

Reasoning Prefix Coverage (%)           

> 010 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 100

Reasoning Prefix Coverage (%) 

Force answer Free generation P base performance R base performance AIME-24-26 MMLU-Pro ZebraLogic 

Figure 11: Prefix-transfer trajectories for Qwen3-4B as the provider and Qwen3-1.7B as the receiver across three datasets. Curves show force-answer and free-generation transfer; horizontal lines mark provider and receiver base performance. 

18 0 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 100 

Reasoning Prefix Coverage (%)           

> 0.0
> 0.2
> 0.4
> 0.6
> 0.8
> 1.0
> Accuracy
> 010 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 100

Reasoning Prefix Coverage (%)           

> 010 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 100

Reasoning Prefix Coverage (%) 

Force answer Free generation P base performance R base performance AIME-24-26 MMLU-Pro ZebraLogic Figure 12: Prefix-transfer trajectories for Qwen3-4B as the provider and Qwen3-0.6B as the receiver across three datasets. Curves show force-answer and free-generation transfer; horizontal lines mark provider and receiver base performance. 0 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 100 

Reasoning Prefix Coverage (%)           

> 0.0
> 0.2
> 0.4
> 0.6
> 0.8
> 1.0
> Accuracy
> 010 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 100

Reasoning Prefix Coverage (%)           

> 010 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 100

Reasoning Prefix Coverage (%) 

Force answer Free generation P base performance R base performance AIME-24-26 MMLU-Pro ZebraLogic 

Figure 13: Prefix-transfer trajectories for Qwen3-4B as the provider and DeepSeek-R1-Distill-Llama-8B as the receiver across three datasets. Curves show force-answer and free-generation transfer; horizontal lines mark provider and receiver base performance. 0 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 100 

Reasoning Prefix Coverage (%)           

> 0.0
> 0.2
> 0.4
> 0.6
> 0.8
> 1.0
> Accuracy
> 010 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 100

Reasoning Prefix Coverage (%)           

> 010 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 100

Reasoning Prefix Coverage (%) 

Force answer Free generation P base performance R base performance AIME-24-26 MMLU-Pro ZebraLogic 

Figure 14: Prefix-transfer trajectories for GPT-OSS-20B as the provider and Qwen3-1.7B as the receiver across three datasets. Curves show force-answer and free-generation transfer; horizontal lines mark provider and receiver base performance. 

19 0 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 100 

Reasoning Prefix Coverage (%)           

> 0.0
> 0.2
> 0.4
> 0.6
> 0.8
> 1.0
> Accuracy
> 010 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 100

Reasoning Prefix Coverage (%)           

> 010 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 100

Reasoning Prefix Coverage (%) 

Force answer Free generation P base performance R base performance AIME-24-26 MMLU-Pro ZebraLogic Figure 15: Prefix-transfer trajectories for GPT-OSS-20B as the provider and Qwen3-0.6B as the receiver across three datasets. Curves show force-answer and free-generation transfer; horizontal lines mark provider and receiver base performance. 0 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 100 

Reasoning Prefix Coverage (%)           

> 0.0
> 0.2
> 0.4
> 0.6
> 0.8
> 1.0
> Accuracy
> 010 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 100

Reasoning Prefix Coverage (%)           

> 010 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 100

Reasoning Prefix Coverage (%) 

Force answer Free generation P base performance R base performance AIME-24-26 MMLU-Pro ZebraLogic 

Figure 16: Prefix-transfer trajectories for GPT-OSS-20B as the provider and DeepSeek-R1-Distill-Llama-8B as the receiver across three datasets. Curves show force-answer and free-generation transfer; horizontal lines mark provider and receiver base performance. 0 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 100 

Reasoning Prefix Coverage (%)           

> 0.0
> 0.2
> 0.4
> 0.6
> 0.8
> 1.0
> Accuracy
> 010 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 100

Reasoning Prefix Coverage (%)           

> 010 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 100

Reasoning Prefix Coverage (%) 

Force answer Free generation P base performance R base performance AIME-24-26 MMLU-Pro ZebraLogic 

Figure 17: Prefix-transfer trajectories for GPT-OSS-20B as the provider and SmolLM3-3B as the receiver across three datasets. Curves show force-answer and free-generation transfer; horizontal lines mark provider and receiver base performance. 

20